docs/root/development/debugging/android_local.rst, before:

.. _debugging_android_instructions:

Debugging the Hello World App (Android)
=======================================

Goals
-----

- As a developer you can compile your `envoy-mobile` repository and the generated `.aar` will be automatically recognized by Android Studio
- `envoy-mobile` can be compiled to a single arch for debugging
- While breaking on a C++ function, Android Studio should present the source file and highlight the line where the breakpoint hit with all scope information
- The workflow works both on emulator and device

Setting up the environment
--------------------------

Before we start, you'll need to download Android Studio and the `Bazel plugin <https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9185-bazel>`_, you can find it in Preferences -> Plugins
.

1. Go `here <https://developer.android.com/studio/>`_ and install Android Studio.
2. Install the bazel plugin

Adding Envoy-Mobile Project into Android Studio
-----------------------------------------------

With your environment setup, open Android Studio.

1. Add a new bazel project by clicking here:

.. image:: images/add-project.png

2. Select your repository root path as follows and hit Next:

.. image:: images/select-em.png

3. Import the bazelproject file from the root and hit Next:

.. image:: images/import-project.png

4. You'll see a screen similar to this. Click Finish.

.. image:: images/final-step-project.png

5. Once Android Studio completes loading click on the Bazel Sync icon:

.. image:: images/bazel-sync.png


Entering a debugging session
----------------------------

With the project ready, you can now start debugging with Android Studio.

1. Compile your envoy-mobile with debug symbols to the architecture of the device or emulator you are about to run.

For example:
::

    $ ./bazelw build android_dist --config=android --fat_apk_cpu=x86 -c dbg

Android supported archs are `arm64_v8a`, `armeabi-v7a`, `x86`, `x86_64`.

2. From Android Studio select the `Example App x86 (Debug)` configuration and hit the debug icon. Note: if you don't see this option go to "Add configuration" and it'll be there on the Bazel category, just select it and hit Ok.
3. Optionally you could create symbolic breakpoints before running by going to the Debugger tab.

Your environment should look like this at this point:

.. image:: images/environment.png

Commit message:

tools: add arm64 debug run configuration (#2424)
Description: Add an arm64 run configuration for Envoy example app so that it's possible to run and debug Envoy Mobile example app on ARM machines (i.e., M1 Macbooks). Following steps from https://envoy-mobile.github.io/docs/envoy-mobile/latest/development/debugging/android_local.html#adding-envoy-mobile-project-into-android-studio it's possible to set up an Android project that makes it possible to run and debug Envoy Mobile example app (put symbolic breakpoints in Envoy code). As it is now, the configured/added run configuration supports running of x86 builds only which do not work on ARM machines. 
Risk Level: None
Testing: Run new configuration locally on M1 Macbook.
Docs Changes: N/A
Release Notes: N/A

Signed-off-by: Rafal Augustyniak <raugustyniak@lyft.com>

docs/root/development/debugging/android_local.rst, after:

.. _debugging_android_instructions:

Debugging the Hello World App (Android)
=======================================

Goals
-----

- As a developer you can compile your `envoy-mobile` repository and the generated `.aar` will be automatically recognized by Android Studio
- `envoy-mobile` can be compiled to a single arch for debugging
- While breaking on a C++ function, Android Studio should present the source file and highlight the line where the breakpoint hit with all scope information
- The workflow works both on emulator and device

Setting up the environment
--------------------------

Before we start, you'll need to download Android Studio and the `Bazel plugin <https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9185-bazel>`_, you can find it in Preferences -> Plugins
.

1. Go `here <https://developer.android.com/studio/>`_ and install Android Studio
2. Install the bazel plugin

Adding Envoy-Mobile Project into Android Studio
-----------------------------------------------

With your environment setup, open Android Studio.

1. Add a new bazel project by clicking here:

.. image:: images/add-project.png

2. Select your repository root path as follows and hit Next:

.. image:: images/select-em.png

3. Import the bazelproject file from the root and hit Next:

.. image:: images/import-project.png

4. You'll see a screen similar to this. Click Finish.

.. image:: images/final-step-project.png

5. Once Android Studio completes loading click on the Bazel Sync icon:

.. image:: images/bazel-sync.png


Entering a debugging session
----------------------------

With the project ready, you can now start debugging with Android Studio.

1. From Android Studio select either `Example App (Debug) [x86]` or `Example App (Debug) [arm64]` configuration. Note: the `x86` configuration doesn't work on ARM machines (i.e., M1 Macbooks).
2. Hit the debug icon. Note: if you don't see this option go to "Add configuration" and it'll be there on the Bazel category, just select it and hit Ok.
3. Optionally you could create symbolic breakpoints before running by going to the Debugger tab.

Your environment should look like this at this point:

.. image:: images/environment.png
